Smart contracts:- code running on the blockahain and they are automatically executed when the conditions are met. Sounds simple but is really complex. It has the pontential to change our lifes just as internet changed ours. Casting a vote, how do we know that our vote is being delivered correctly. invention of internet we thought that we removed the middleman but in fact it created more powerful ones.

Q- What was the thing about that field that attracted you?

Its a growing technology as a result of which there are always new and exciting things to look forward to.

Q- Its current applications?

Variety of cryptocurrencies like bitcoin, ethereum, Ripple, Lite coin. Being used in Asset Management, ripple is using it to simplify cross border transactions. A supply chain is the network of all the individuals, organizations, resources, activities and technology involved in the creation and sale of a product, from the delivery of source materials from the supplier to the manufacturer, through to its eventual delivery to the end user.

Q- What is its scope in the future?
Blockchains come into picture when we need trust between several parties. Blockchain has no borders, it allows for secure collaboration between parties sharing any kind of transaction. As a result, I believe blockchain has a limitless potential in all kinds of applications. future will be decentralized.

Q- How would you suggest the juniors to approach this field?

I would suggest them to first explore all the things that they can and find something which they are really passionate about. For blockchains go with a course on coursera called bitcoins and cryptocurrencies by Princeton. It is an excellent course and a good starting point. Later if they like the course, they can explore more areas into blockchains.

1)  What do you mean by blockchain system? 

For a lot of people bitcoin is synonymous to blockchains but infact all the cryptocurrencies are a application of blockchains. You can think of blockchains as a distributed and immutable ledger which allows us to store a variety of information. distributed means each participating entity posses a ledger of its own and updates to the ledger happen when super majority of people agree upon a update and it gives us a sense of assurance and trust that a single entity is not controlling everything. What this means in terms of security would be a bank tracks and secures all transactions ideally if a hacker breaches in to a banks central database then he can easily manipulate information. In decentralized world it wont be possible as he would need to compromise more than half of the systems which would become hard in large networks.

2) When did it first came into existence?

Blockchains popularity increased because of increased popularity in  bitcoin which was developed by Satoshi Nakamoto. Whose real identity we still don't know. praise bitcoin

3) What is the need and advantages of blockchain technology? 

Why should we depend on third party for our means? We need blockchains wherever we require trust and transparency among independent parties, whether its supply chain, currency, or for some sensitive information. Story of green energy, generating energy is easy but distributing it is hard. security, transparency and trust. take example of supply chain.

5) How can it help in building the economy for the country like India? 

Many Indian state governments such as those of Telangana, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, and Maharashtra are supporting blockchain startups and projects and organizing conferences and hackathons on the topic. India stands sixth on the list of patents and trends in the blockchain space. With its strong IT ecosystem, India can become a leading blockchain development hub. In addition to giving the underprivileged access to banking services, greater transparency in charities which will result in an increased level of trust in where the money goes and who benefits. would surely lead to increased contributions in times of AID. Blockchain technology can solve major problems plaguing Indian economy such as corruption, intervention of middlemen, breach of data, financial ledger tampering, and many more. 

7) Can you tell me some of the widely used cryptographic algorithms? 

MD5 was one of the most widely used hashing algorithm, but traditional md5 is now known to be broken and is in fact being replaced by better algorithms like SHA 256 and SHA 512. SHA 256 is used by bitcoin and ehtereum uses SHA -3 which is a slight modification of 256. post quantum stuff quantum computers threat.

9) Is it really needed for our society? Present your personal opinion. 

The social impact of blockchain technology has already begun to be realized and this may just be the tip of the iceberg. I believe blockchains will help us in going completely decentralised i.e removing the need of third party between transactions. We wont have to rely on banks; corruption will reduce and it would be good for mutual trust between functioning members of the society. Blockchain market places will provide a sense of security and guarantee that our stuff will be delivered to us.

10) Does this technology have any prospective towards digital freedom?

The day is not far when more and more applications of blockchains would become popular, and there will be a decentralized social network. It won't be owned by any one company or individual in fact we all would own our own data, and using consent management systems, we can decide who to sell our data to. So yes this technology has prospective towards digital freedom.